---
title:  "Win Win"
date:   2024-07-04 11:09:00
layout: page
#
# toc: true
# categories:
---

"So often the problem is in the system, not in the people. If you put google people in bad systems, you get bad results. You ahve to water the flowers you want to grow" - P264. Habit 4:Think WIN/WIN <7 Hubits of Highly Successful People>

I'm a perfectionist and tend to be skeptical over myself and others. Be self-compassionate is my goal. Learning the objective truth, understanding and building systems are my goals in 2024. 

A successful company is a well-run system. A person is merely a node. 

"Win/Win" is not a personality technique. It comes from a character of integrity, maturity, and the Abundance Mentality. 

Suggestions from the 7 Habit Book: 
1. Think about an upcoming interaction wherein you will be attempting to reach an agreement or negotiate a solution. Commit to maintain a balance between courage and consideration. 

1. Make a list of obstables that keep you from applying the Win/Win paradigm more frequently. Determine what could be done within your Circle of Influence to eliminate some of those obstacles. 

1. Select a specific relationship where you would like to develop a Win/Win agreemtn. Try to put yourself in the other person's place, and write down explicitly how you think that person sees the solution. Then list, from your own perspective, what results would constitutue a Win for you. Approach the other person and ask if he or she would be willing to communicate until you reach a point of agreement and mutually beneficial solution. 

1. Identify 3 key relationships in your life. Give some indications of what you feel the balance is in each of the Emotion Bank Accounts. Write down some specific ways you could make deposits in each account. 

1. Deeply consider your own scripting. Is it Win/Lose? How does that scripting affect your interactions with other people? Can you identify the main source of that script? Detemine whether or not those scripts serve well in your current reality. 

1. Try to identify a model of Win/Win thinking who, even in hard situations, really seek mutual benefit. Determine who now to more closely watch and learn from this person's example. 


