---
title:  "Vector Database"
date:   2024-06-24 10:26:00
layout: page
#
# toc: true
# categories:
---

# What is a vector database? 

A vector database indexes, stores, and provides access to structured or unstructured data (e.g., text or images) alongside its vector embeddings, which are the data's numerical representation. It allows users to find and retrieve similar objects quickly at scale in production.

Vector embeddings numerically capture the semantic meaning of the objects in relation to other objects. Thus, **similar objects are grouped together** in the vector space, which means the closer two objects, the more similar they are.

When you want to find the closest items to a given query vector, the brute force approach would be to use the k-Nearest Neighbors (kNN) algorithm. But calculating the similarity between your query vector and every entry in the vector database requires a lot of computational resources, especially if you have large datasets with millions or even billions of data points, because the required calculations increase linearly (O(n)) with the dimensionality and the number of data points.

A more efficient solution to find similar objects is to use an **approximate nearest neighbor (ANN)** approach. The underlying idea is to pre-calculate the distances between the vector embeddings and organize and store similar vectors close to each other (e.g., in clusters or a graph), so that you can later find similar objects faster. This process is called vector indexing. Note that the speed gains are traded in for some accuracy because the ANN approach returns only the approximate results.



https://weaviate.io/blog/what-is-a-vector-database (8/1/2023)
