---
title:  "Obsidian"
date:   2024-07-07 11:09:00
layout: page
#
# toc: true
# categories:
---



<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Love letter to <a href="https://twitter.com/obsdmd?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@obsdmd</a> to which I very happily switched to for my personal notes. My primary interest in Obsidian is not even for note taking specifically, it is that Obsidian is around the state of the art of a philosophy of software and what it could be.

- Your notes are simple plain-text markdown files stored locally on your computer. Obsidian is just UI/UX sugar of pretty rendering and editing files.
- Extensive plugins ecosystem and very high composability with any other tools you wish to use because again it's all just plain-text files on your disk.
- For a fee to cover server costs, you can also Sync (with end-to-end encryption) and/or Publish your files. Or you can use anything else e.g. GitHub, it's just files go nuts.
- There are no attempts to "lock you in", actually as far as I can tell Obsidian is completely free of any user-hostile dark patterns.

For some more depth, I recommend the following writing from CEO 
@kepano
:
- "File over app" https://stephango.com/file-over-app . If you want to create digital artifacts that last, they must be files you can control, in formats that are easy to retrieve and read. Accept that all software is ephemeral, and give people ownership over their data.
- "100% user-supported" https://stephango.com/vcware . On incentives alignment.
- "Quality software deserves your hard‑earned cash" https://stephango.com/quality-software 

TLDR: This is what software could be: private, secure, delightful, free of dark patterns, fully aligned with the user, where you retain full control and ownership of your data in simple, universal formats, and where tools can be extended and composed.
</p>&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) 
<a href="https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1761467904737067456?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 24, 2024</a></blockquote> 