---
title:  "LLM.c"
date:   2024-05-01 9:00:00
layout: page
#
# toc: true
# categories:
---
## layman terms

- [gpt finite state colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1SiF0KZJp75rUeetKOWqpsA8clmHP6jMg?usp=sharing) (source: https://x.com/karpathy/status/1645115622517542913)
  
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"># explaining llm.c in layman terms<br><br>Training Large Language Models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, involves a large amount of code and complexity.

For example, a typical LLM training project might use the PyTorch deep learning library. PyTorch is quite complex because it implements a very general Tensor abstraction (a way to arrange and manipulate arrays of numbers that hold the parameters and activations of the neural network), a very general Autograd engine for backpropagation (the algorithm that trains the neural network parameters), and a large collection of deep learning layers you may wish to use in your neural network. The PyTorch project is 3,327,184 lines of code in 11,449 files.

On top of that, PyTorch is written in Python, which is itself a very high-level language. You have to run the Python interpreter to translate your training code into low-level computer instructions. For example the cPython project that does this translation is 2,437,955 lines of code across 4,306 files.

I am deleting all of this complexity and boiling the LLM training down to its bare essentials, speaking directly to the computer in a very low-level language (C), and with no other library dependencies. The only abstraction below this is the assembly code itself. I think people find it surprising that, by comparison to the above, training an LLM like GPT-2 is actually only a ~1000 lines of code in C in a single file. I am achieving this compression by implementing the neural network training algorithm for GPT-2 directly in C. This is difficult because you have to understand the training algorithm in detail, be able to derive all the forward and backward pass of backpropagation for all the layers, and implement all the array indexing calculations very carefully because you don’t have the PyTorch tensor abstraction available. So it’s a very brittle thing to arrange, but once you do, and you verify the correctness by checking agains PyTorch, you’re left with something very simple, small and imo quite beautiful.

Okay so why don’t people do this all the time?

Number 1: you are giving up a large amount of flexibility. If you want to change your neural network around, in PyTorch you’d be changing maybe one line of code. In llm.c, the change would most likely touch a lot more code, may be a lot more difficult, and require more expertise. E.g. if it’s a new operation, you may have to do some calculus, and write both its forward pass and backward pass for backpropagation, and make sure it is mathematically correct.

Number 2: you are giving up speed, at least initially. There is no fully free lunch - you shouldn’t expect state of the art speed in just 1,000 lines. PyTorch does a lot of work in the background to make sure that the neural network is very efficient. Not only do all the Tensor operations very carefully call the most efficient CUDA kernels, but also there is for example torch.compile, which further analyzes and optimizes your neural network and how it could run on your computer most efficiently. Now, in principle, llm.c should be able to call all the same kernels and do it directly. But this requires some more work and attention, and just like in (1), if you change anything about your neural network or the computer you’re running on, you may have to call different kernels, with different parameters, and you may have to make more changes manually.

So TLDR: llm.c is a direct implementation of training GPT-2. This implementation turns out to be surprisingly short. No other neural network is supported, only GPT-2, and if you want to change anything about the network, it requires expertise. Luckily, all state of the art LLMs are actually not a very large departure from GPT-2 at all, so this is not as strong of a constraint as you might think. And llm.c has to be additionally tuned and refined, but in principle I think it should be able to almost match (or even outperform, because we get rid of all the overhead?) PyTorch, with not too much more code than where it is today, for most modern LLMs.

And why I am working on it? Because it’s fun. It’s also educational, because those 1,000 lines of very simple C are all that is needed, nothing else. It's just a few arrays of numbers and some simple math operations over their elements like + and *. And it might even turn out to be practically useful with some more work that is ongoing. https://t.co/dkpZGRvkmU 

<a href="https://t.co/dkpZGRvkmU">https://t.co/dkpZGRvkmU</a></p>&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1778153659106533806?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 10, 2024</a></blockquote>
--
🔥llm.c update: Our single file of 2,000 ~clean lines of C/CUDA code now trains GPT-2 (124M) on GPU at speeds ~matching PyTorch (fp32, no flash attention)
https://github.com/karpathy/llm.c/blob/master/train_gpt2.cu

On my A100 I'm seeing 78ms/iter for llm.c and 80ms/iter for PyTorch. Keeping in mind this is fp32, with no flash attention yet, and slightly stale PyTorch (2.1.0).

- It is a direct implementation of the training loop and backpropagation in C/CUDA.
- It compiles and runs instantly. No more "hit run then wait for tens of seconds for unknown reasons", for mountains of inscrutable abstractions to build a Universe.
- It deletes the need for the Python interpreter and a deep learning library.
- It allocates all the memory a single time at the start.
- It's pretty cool.

How:
Getting this to work required us to write a lot of custom CUDA kernels, and doing this manually (instead of using Tensor ops of aten/PyTorch and torch.compile etc.) is a bit like programming in assembly. And you spend quality time looking at more assembly (CUDA PTX/SASS). But this also means we get to hyperoptimize the code and possibly explore optimizations that torch.compile might find difficult to, which is awesome. Examples of optimizations that went in over the last few days:

- we're being clever with our memory consumption in the backward pass, only using a few buffers we need to propagate the gradients, saving memory capacity.
- one fused classifier kernel does the last layer forward pass, the loss, and kicks off the backward pass.
- many improvements to all the kernels involved, including e.g. gains from carefully constraining execution within the autoregressive mask in attention
- cuBLAS(Lt) calls for all heavy lifting matmuls, and fused bias accumulation

Big credits to two CUDA experts who appeared from somewhere on the internet to help this open source project, ngc92 and ademeure. We're hanging out of Github and Discords of CUDAMODE and my NN Zero to Hero.

Next steps:
- more optimizing of our (fp32) kernels, and especially switch to flash attention.
- mixed precision training (fp16 to start).
- multi-gpu training (DDP to start).
- data & evals to set up a proper GPT-2 training runs
- 🚀 repro GPT-2 (1.6B) training run.
- more modern architectures etc. (Llama 3?)
- writing, videos, exercises on building all of this from scratch.

Figure 1: eye candy: timing profile of the kernels (one layer). NVIDIA cutlass kernels with solid compute throughput taking up a lot of the running time => nice.

&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://x.com/karpathy/status/1781387674978533427">April 19, 2024</a>
--
<blockquote>
<p>
Day 24 of llm.c: we now do multi-GPU training, in bfloat16, with flash attention, directly in ~3000 lines of C/CUDA, and it is FAST! 🚀

We're running ~7% faster than PyTorch nightly, with no asterisks, i.e. this baseline includes all modern & standard bells-and-whistles: mixed precision training, torch compile and flash attention, and manually padding vocab. (Previous comparisons included asterisks like *only inference, or *only fp32 etc.) Compared to the current PyTorch stable release 2.3.0, llm.c is actually ~46% faster. My point in these comparisons is just to say "llm.c is fast", not to cast any shade on PyTorch. It's really amazing that PyTorch trains this fast in a fully generic way, with ability to cook up and run ~arbitrary neural networks and run them on a ton of platforms. I see the goals and pros and cons of these two projects as different, even complementary. Actually I started llm.c with my upcoming education videos in mind, to explain what PyTorch does for you under the hood.

How we got here over the last ~1.5 weeks - added:

✅ mixed precision training (bfloat16)
✅ many kernel optimizations, including e.g. a FusedClassifier that (unlike current torch.compile) does not materialize the normalized logits.
✅ flash attention (right now from cudnn)
✅ Packed128 data structure that forces the A100 to utilize 128-bit load (LDG.128) and store (STS.128) instructions.

It's now also possible to train multi-GPU - added:
✅ First version of multi-gpu training with MPI+NCCL
✅ Profiling the full training run for NVIDIA Nsight Compute
✅ PR for stage 1 of ZeRO (optimizer state sharding) merging imminently

We're still at "only" 3,000 lines of code of C/CUDA. It's getting a bit less simple, but still bit better than ~3 million. We also split off the fp32 code base into its own file, which will be pure CUDA kernels only (no cublas or cudnn or etc), and which I think would make a really nice endpoint of a CUDA course. You start with the gpt2.c pure CPU implementation, and see how fast you can make it by the end of the course on GPU, with kernels only and no dependencies.

Our goal now is to create a reliable, clean, tested, minimal, hardened and sufficiently optimized LLM stack that reproduces the GPT-2 miniseries of all model sizes, from 124M to 1.6B, directly in C/CUDA.

A lot more detail on: "State of the Union [May 3, 2024]"
https://github.com/karpathy/llm.c/discussions/344
</p>
&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://x.com/karpathy/status/1786461447654125625">May 3, 2024</a></blockquote>




