---
title:  "AI Trend"
date:   2024-07-05 11:09:00
layout: page
#
# toc: true
# categories:
---

## AI Trend
1. AI Automation

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"># automating software engineering<br><br>In my mind, automating software engineering will look similar to automating driving. E.g. in self-driving the progression of increasing autonomy and higher abstraction looks something like:

1. first the human performs all driving actions manually
2. then the AI helps keep the lane
3. then it slows for the car ahead
4. then it also does lane changes and takes forks
5. then it also stops at signs/lights and takes turns
6. eventually you take a feature complete solution and grind on the quality until you achieve full self-driving.

There is a progression of the AI doing more and the human doing less, but still providing oversight. In Software engineering, the progression is shaping up similar:

1. first the human writes the code manually
2. then GitHub Copilot autocompletes a few lines
3. then ChatGPT writes chunks of code
4. then you move to larger and larger code diffs (e.g. Cursor copilot++ style, nice demo here https://youtube.com/watch?v=Smklr44N8QU)
5....
Devin is an impressive demo of what perhaps follows next: coordinating a number of tools that a developer needs to string together to write code: a Terminal, a Browser, a Code editor, etc., and human oversight that moves to increasingly higher level of abstraction.

There is a lot of work not just on the AI part but also the UI/UX part. How does a human provide oversight?  What are they looking at? How do they nudge the AI down a different path? How do they debug what went wrong? It is very likely that we will have to change up the code editor, substantially.

In any case, software engineering is on track to change substantially. And it will look a lot more like supervising the automation, while pitching in high-level commands, ideas or progression strategies, in English.

Good luck to the team!
  
  <a href="https://t.co/u2EXfxcV6e">https://t.co/u2EXfxcV6e</a></p>&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1767598414945292695?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">March 12, 2024</a></blockquote>

--
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">WWith many 🧩 dropping recently, a more complete picture is emerging of LLMs not as a chatbot, but the kernel process of a new Operating System. E.g. today it orchestrates:

- Input & Output across modalities (text, audio, vision)
- Code interpreter, ability to write & run programs
- Browser / internet access
- Embeddings database for files and internal memory storage & retrieval

A lot of computing concepts carry over. Currently we have single-threaded execution running at ~10Hz (tok/s) and enjoy looking at the assembly-level execution traces stream by. Concepts from computer security carry over, with attacks, defenses and emerging vulnerabilities.

I also like the nearest neighbor analogy of "Operating System" because the industry is starting to shape up similar:
Windows, OS X, and Linux <-> GPT, PaLM, Claude, and Llama/Mistral(?:)).
An OS comes with default apps but has an app store.
Most apps can be adapted to multiple platforms.

TLDR looking at LLMs as chatbots is the same as looking at early computers as calculators. We're seeing an emergence of a whole new computing paradigm, and it is very early. 

<a href="https://t.co/2HsyslOG2F">pic.twitter.com/2HsyslOG2F</a></p>&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1707437820045062561?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 28, 2023</a></blockquote>
